FIZ5113



The full form of the acronym 'laser' is light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. 
The laser was invented in 1960 as a so-called 'tool looking for an application'.

Micromachining, waveguide fabrication, welding, cutting, nondestructive testing, and pulsed-laser 
deposition of thin films are some of their applications in materials science. 

In the field of electrical engineering, fiber optics has revolutionized the field of optical communication.

In aerospace engineering applications involving jet and scramjet engines, studies of the mixing of 
fuel sprays require laser-induced fluorescence techniques. 

The defense, medical, and cosmetic fields, as well as scientific research, are interdisciplinary areas
that make extensive use of lasers. Like the flow of electrons that completes electronic circuits in 
electronics, photons are related to photonic circuits in the field of photonics. 

Maxwell's equations suggest that light is an electromagnetic (EM) wave.
Therefore, this chapter connects optics with EM theory. An electric field (E, in the y direction)
and a magnetic field (B, in the x direction), which are mutually perpendicular to each other. 

The Photon

The photon is introduced using classical and quantum picture.
A semi-classical approach is used to connect classical electrodynamics with light. 
These parameters including group velocity, phase velocity power flux, radiation pressure and dispersion.

The photon:
  i.   has no charge,
  ii.  is considered to have zero rest mass but
  iii. carries momentum $\left(\,p=h/\lambda \right)$,
  iv.  has a constant velocity ($c)\sim {10}^{8}$ m s−1 in vacuum,
  v.   carries a spin of 1 and thus follows Bose–Einstein statistics,
  vi.  is immune to EM noise (as it has no charge), and
  vii. does not undergo photon–photon interactions in linear optics.
  
 The property of photons being immune to EM noise makes a light beam a special tool as compared
 to electrical circuits that are prone to picking up stray EM signals. 
 
 Similarly, photon–photon interactions cannot take place under normal light levels.
 In the same way that electronics deals with the flow of electrons in electrical circuits,
 photon-related studies address photonic circuits that fall within the domain of photonics.
 This means that the two light rays can cross without interacting with each other. 
 
 The photon–electron interaction, which falls within the domain of light–matter interactions, 
 is an important area of interdisciplinary research. 

Refractive index

The refractive index (n) of a medium is defined as the ratio of the speed of the light in vacuum (c)
to that in the medium (nu). It should be noted that a change in the speed of the light wave results in
a change in its wavelength. 

